<br>     <i>Thanks to meditations and spiritual
<br>    practices, the man independently learns
<br>    about the world outside of the three
<br>    dimensions, and not with the mind‘s logic
<br>    but with a more perfect instrument
<br>    of his – the intuitive sense (the sixth sense). </i>
<p style="text-align:end">Rigden Djappo (from the book “AllatRa“)</p>

<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> But before you proceed with the technique of
    doing this unique meditation, I would like to clarify with you some significant moments for the readers, first
    of all, the ones related to understanding what an altered state of consciousness during meditation is. You know,
    I came across such instances when people, even after reading the books, did meditations, to put it mildly,
    simply with imagination. Upon a detailed discussion, it turned out that they just did not understand what a
    meditation really was, what an altered state of consciousness in practice was, although they had read about it a
    lot. In some cases, people, thinking that they were meditating, in fact, remained practically in the awake
    state, which is typical for them during the day, without bothering to switch to a different state of
    consciousness. That is why they often had thoughts about everyday matters, about their current work, everyday
    life, experiences during the day and so on; that is, they had various distracting thoughts during this simulated
    exercise. Naturally, such a meditation, as a theory, happened only in their imagination. In other cases, people
    simply fell asleep instead of meditating. Generally, it happened after they were exhausted during the workday
    and then sat down to meditate. Sleep, as it is known, is also one of the altered states of consciousness. So,
    they mistook it for meditation, and that is why while making such an “effort of will”, in the sense of forcing
    themselves to meditate despite being tired after a workday, they, in fact, did not see any results.

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> These people need to understand what altered
    states of consciousness are, what kind they can be and what the difference between them is. These altered states
    of consciousness, such as a dream or a meditation are characterised by complete relaxation of the body, mental
    calmness, and drowsiness. But this is only an indicator of <i>the beginning of an altered state of
    consciousness. </i> The division comes later: some people get immersed in meditation (a conscious control
    of the subtle processes of the invisible world) while others fall asleep (the unconscious state).

<br>     <b>Anastasia:</b> I’ve been saying just that! In other words, people lack
    real practical understanding of what a true meditation is and how it really takes place.

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> I would advise these people, first of all, to
    understand what an elementary autogenic training is, learn to relax the body, control their thoughts, practice
    keeping their attention focused on one thing for long periods of time, and then to proceed to practicing
    meditation, that is, to a deeper immersion into an altered state of consciousness; to learn the basic meditation
    techniques that you described in the first book Sensei and in the other books in the series and only then to
    begin to master the fundamental spiritual practices.

<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> I agree with you, people are different, and
    while some quickly grasp the essence, others need time to figure everything out in more detail. But more often,
    people simply lack the basic knowledge about themselves and the general mechanisms of the brain’s function in
    different states of consciousness. I know that you possess unique knowledge in the field of neurophysiology and
    functioning of the human brain. Could you elaborate on the topic of altered states of consciousness, or at least
    orient the readers in publicly accessible information, or share knowledge that can be made public?

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> Well, perhaps, solely within the limits of the
    modern scientific understanding of functioning of the brain so that it might be clearer to people what is meant
    and in which direction one should conduct one’s research. As is it known, functioning of the brain is associated
    with electromagnetic waves. The brain can operate in different modes, each of which is characterised by a
    certain psychic and physiological state of consciousness. The human being as a Personality, thanks to
    concentrating his attention, can control several such states of consciousness. In everyday life, he is most
    often in one of the states which in the scientific circles is called the awake state. Scientists, while
    measuring the brain’s electrical activity over time, conditionally indicate <b>the state of active
    wakefulness</b> as beta-rhythm (β-rhythm). Its frequency range is from 14 to 35 Hz, and the voltage is
    10-30 mkV. Beta waves are regarded as fast waves and they are low-amplitude vibrations of the overall (total)
    potential of the brain. On the EEG, the waveform resembles, relatively speaking, “triangles” with pointed tops.
    Beta rhythm is generally recorded during the functioning of the brain’s frontal central regions. However, when a
    person pays attention to something new, unexpected, to any information that he hears, intensive mental activity,
    or a powerful emotional excitation, this rhythm grows and can spread to other parts of the brain. Beta rhythm is
    typical of the brain’s functioning when a person works mentally, is emotionally stressed and under the influence
    of various irritants.
<br>    All in all, it should be noted that such a notion as fatigue is not typical
    for the brain. You must simply understand how it works, switch from one activity to another in time, and be able
    to change the quality of the states of consciousness at the right time. Everyday life constantly involves a
    person’s psychological self- tuning, upon which, incidentally, also depends the overall condition of the body.
    Throughout the day, a person is influenced by different external factors, such as, for example, sound and light,
    not to mention the effects of the invisible world. All of them are everyday irritants which, one way or another,
    affect physiological and other biological processes of human life.
    <br>    Excessive anxiety, anger, irritability, and psychological fatigue are
    accompanied by tension of the muscles of face, neck, arms, and so on. In its turn, a tense muscle also becomes a
    generator of excitation impulses. The task of the person performing an autogenic training or tuning up for a
    meditation is to limit the flow of excitatory signals. That is why he sits down in a comfortable position, in
    silence (eliminates any sound stimuli), closes his eyes (eliminates the impact of the sources of visual
    stimuli), switches his attention from various everyday thoughts, experiences, and worries, to inner peace and
    silence (that is, when possible, he eliminates the direct influence of the invisible world). Next, he focuses on
    relaxing his muscles (eliminates another channel of excitation) and then reaches the state of complete
    relaxation altogether. Thus, a person readjusts the working mode of his psyche and, consequently, of the nervous
    system. Thanks to such self-tuning, he can control himself through clear mental self-orders (auto-reports).

<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> Thought discipline opens great opportunities
    for a human being. In the state of meditation, he can control those mechanisms of his complex energy structure
    that are not accessible in other states (including the awake state). Naturally, when performing a meditative
    technique correctly, he observes a spiritual surge, insight, development of intuitive knowledge, as well as
    “side effects” of such work: a burst of energy, good mood, and increase in creativity which, in turn, has a
    positive effect on the person’s general state.

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> Absolutely. All these mechanisms must be
    understood. Attention in a meditation is like electric current in the network: what you connect to it is what
    will work. Therefore, it is important to keep focus on the main processes taking place during the meditation.
    Generally, the person doing a spiritual practice can be compared to a military pilot performing a combat mission
    in a supersonic fighter. Initially, the pilot practices to perfection all the actions on the aviation
    (aerobatic) flight trainer on the ground, simulating a plane flight. This can be compared to a person who has
    just started to learn the primary stages of meditation. Namely, the process of relaxation, disconnection from
    extraneous thoughts, immersion in the state of meditation, the primary sensations at the level of the physical
    body such as heat in the solar plexus, or a slight tingling in the area of chakrans, or energy movement along
    the arms, and so on. This stage can be conditionally called the primary one: from only theoretical ideas about
    meditation to acquiring the first practical skills.
<br>    The second stage in learning meditative practices is similar, figuratively
    speaking, to a pilot getting practical experience actually in the air, when he gets into a fighting machine and
    trains in flight. Here, he comes to understand that controlling a fighting plane in the sky is not quite the
    same as performing the same exercises on a simulator and imitator on earth. The significant difference is not in
    the technique but in the sensations and the understanding of the flight process and life in a completely
    different space – the sky. Like the pilot, the meditator understands the substantial difference between
    theoretical and practical knowledge when he works on himself daily and controls his Animal nature. The person
    begins to change. This is the important thing because a meditation is only a tool! In other words, he begins to
    control his thoughts in everyday life, to keep them pure, track his psychological reactions, and avoid
    negativity in his consciousness. When the person does not control his thoughts, he blames everyone for his
    troubles and wrongs, he condemns all, is unhappy with many things, teaches everyone without practicing what he
    preaches, and so on. But when the person begins to work on himself, he turns his attention not to the external
    but to his internal causes as to why he perceives and reacts to the surrounding world in this way and not
    otherwise. The person begins to understand why he succumbs to these external provocations and how he should
    divert his attention from his multiple egocentric desires, instances of resentment and aggression of the Animal
    nature, how to switch it to the Front Essence and the deepest feelings emanating from the Soul, and abide on the
    spiritual wave. So when the person does such work on himself on a daily basis without giving any concessions to
    his Animal nature, then a completely new level of perception opens for him in meditations. He begins to
    understand what a meditation is and to go deeply into this process, which is unusual for him. The person learns
    to stay in a completely different state of consciousness, which is different from the awake state and sleep,
    that is, to sense in practice this difference between the states of consciousness, to understand the world
    through the deepest feelings and intuitive Knowledge, which is not a product of logic.
<br>    And finally, the third stage is when the military pilot performs a combat
    mission in flight on a supersonic fighter. He no longer thinks about the mechanisms of operation of the plane,
    he simply automatically starts them. He does not think about that unusual space in which he is – he already
    lives in this space. The pilot feels every movement of the aircraft and his attention is focused on the main
    thing: to carry out the combat mission. So it is with the person who is deeply engaged in spiritual practices.
    At this stage, he makes the habit of controlling his Animal nature, automatically starts the meditation
    mechanisms with clear mental orders, and performs the meditation itself solely with his deepest feelings without
    any thoughts. The mechanism of spiritual practices (assuming that an individual does serious work on himself in
    everyday life) brings the person to a completely different level of perception, including the 4th, the 5th or
    the 6th dimension from the perspective of the Observer from the Spiritual nature. He begins to explore the
    familiar world of matter and the world of subtle energies only with his deepest feelings, not with logic and
    material thoughts. After all, thoughts are a product of matter, nothing more than that. However, the spiritual,
    deepest feelings are a completely different quality of perception and a totally different comprehension of the
    all-encompassing Knowledge, it is that which people call enlightenment.

<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> On that side, one gains an amazing clarity and
    precision of understanding the processes which take place there. However, after a meditation, when you try to
    explain to others what you experienced, you realise that it is impossible to accurately communicate what you
    felt on that side through familiar images and associations. Thanks to this, you realise that there is a
    significant difference in your daily life between the real processes and the mind’s game – those associations
    with which logic operates from the perspective of the material perception of the world. Yes, when you start
    experiencing it all in practice and get in touch with the true reality, then you maturely realise why each day
    that you spend in the spiritual work is so important and for what thoughts and deeds you squander the power of
    your attention each day. After all, everything has inevitable consequences, first of all, for your Soul and your
    Personality.