<br>    The very first steps in spiritual direction have been
    described in your previous books. And before telling the readers about the next stage of more in-depth work on
    yourself, which is the “Pyramid” meditation, I should first talk about a simple but useful meditation intended
    for knowing your four Essences. Different peoples called it differently at different times. For example, in
    ancient times the Slavs, long before the advent of Christianity and introduction of this religion into the
    consciousness of this nation, called it Chetverik, and it was one of the basic initial practices in the process
    of self-perfection along man’s spiritual path…

<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> Do you mean the meditation intended for
    conscious perception of one’s four Essences?! This is indeed a rather effective meditation which is aimed at
    knowing yourself, revealing particular qualities of daily work of one’s Essences and their influence on
    consciousness through thoughts and emotional states.

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> This simple meditation is, in fact, the first
    step towards getting consciously acquainted with your Essences. While mastering it, a person learns not only to
    control his emotional states, but also to understand the real cause of their emergence. As a rule, in usual
    life, the person does not notice or keep track of why he is suddenly overwhelmed by various, changeable like the
    weather, moods and emotions: anger, or aggression and slyness accompanied by selfishness, or fear, or sudden
    memories of the past with their burden of negativity, and so on. At best, the person identifies such states in
    himself as an evident manifestation of the Animal nature which has already fully captured his consciousness. He
    begins to suffer from this vicious circle of thoughts and emotions, at the same time strengthening them with his
    attention. In other words, he does not trace the initial provocation from the lateral Essences. Whereas this
    meditation helps to develop skills, which make it possible not only to track this process but also to stop it in
    time; that is, to terminate it before this state completely engulfs man. So, this meditation is not only very
    effective but, what is equally important – especially for beginners, it is easy to learn since it is similar to
    a psychotechnique.

<br>     <b>The purpose of this meditation</b> is to learn to understand
    the moments of activation of each of the four Essences, feel them deeply, identify emotional surges accompanying
    this activation, and also to understand the nature of manifestation of various thoughts which have been caused
    by this process and which subsequently affect the change of mood.
<br>    The meditation is done in the standing position. The meditator imagines
    himself standing in the centre of the base of a small four-sided pyramid; that is, he is located in the median
    centre of the space divided in the form of a diagonal cross and each part of that space will, in fact, represent
    a field of one of the four Essences. I shall make some clarifications. The square base of the pyramid is
    conditionally divided with diagonal lines; that is, in the form of the letter “X”, by a diagonal cross, into
    four equal parts. The meditator is located at the centre of the intersection of the lines of the cross which
    conditionally divides the space around the person into four parts that have volume. In short, in front of the
    meditator as well as behind and on each side of him, there are triangular-like spaces. This is approximately how
    the fields of the four Essences will look like in the human understanding…


<br>    Now, I shall specify the location of the centre of each Essence. The centres
    of these Essences in these triangular spaces are located approximately at a distance a little further than an
    arm stretched out in the horizontal direction towards each of the four sides. The energy centre of each Essence
    conditionally represents a kind of a bundle, let us say, which resembles a ball or a small sphere in form and in
    consistency; figuratively speaking, something like a gas planet. A small sphere is a symbolic representation of
    the centre of each Essence, to better learn and easily understand this meditation. Actually, this is a complex
    structure. Such a figurative comparison with a sphere is similar to perceiving the human structure in the first
    dimension when it looks like a dot. But from the highest dimensions, the human structure is already perceived,
    in all its multidimensionality, as a complex energy structure. It is the same thing with the centres of these
    Essences: they are spheres conditionally for the resident of a three-dimensional world’s understanding.

<br>     <i>So, we calm our thoughts, emotions, and immerse into a meditative
    state. Breathing is regular and easy. We open the hand chakrans which are located in the centre of the palms. We
    breathe in, letting in the Qi (Chi - translator’s note) energy (the energy of air) through the hand chakrans,
    and raise it along the arms to the shoulder level. When we exhale, we move the Qi (air) energy from shoulders
    down along the lateral meridians (located approximately at the sides of the body) and join the two flows in the
    “Hara” chakran (located approximately three fingers’ widths below the navel), filling our lower abdomen with
    this energy like a bowl with water. Then, after filling it (some people will imagine it mentally at the first
    stages while others will have a sensation of slight heaviness in the lower abdomen), we move the accumulated
    energy from the lower abdomen up along the spine into the head, particularly into the hypothalamic region of the
    betweenbrain (diencephalon - translator’s note) (the “ancient structures” of the brain which are located almost
    in the centre of the head). </i> This place (the centre of the head) will be a kind of a median centre, to
    which the meditator will be constantly “returning” in this meditation.

<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> Here, I would like to mention two interesting
    points, which you once told us about. First, it is no coincidence that filling the Hara chakran is often
    associated with filling a bowl with water. When translated from Japanese, the word “Hara” means “stomach.” While
    the earlier Sanskrit word “harā”, as you said, represented in ancient Indian treatises one of the names of the
    supreme creating power of the feminine principle – the goddess Shakti. Water and a bowl in the context of the
    primordial knowledge about man had an allegorical meaning which indicated the powers and processes acting in
    spiritual practices. Secondly, regarding this meditation in particular. Back then, you drew our attention to the
    fact that the meditator concentrates on breathing only in the beginning as everyday process that is usual to
    him, before filling the lower abdomen with energy. However, later he simply shifts his attention to the energy
    moving along the spine and to tracking the subsequent process of the meditation while breathing already takes
    place naturally, automatically. At the time, these clarifications helped me to understand the first steps
    related to mastering this meditation.

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> Correct. During the meditation, breathing must be
    relaxed and natural, and all the attention must be focused on the processes that are happening at this moment…
    So, naturally, at the beginning, just like in any other meditation, all feelings must be in balance, in a state
    of peace. Accordingly, all four Essences of a person will also be in the “neutral”, unexcited state. The
    meditator senses them as if simultaneously. The centres of the Essences are like big balls, suns, planets, and
    so forth – you can imagine all this however you like at the beginning. Over time, while practicing this
    meditation, the person will learn to feel how they work according to his own inner sensations. And having gained
    his own relevant experience, it will no longer be necessary for him to have these images, for another stage of
    knowing yourself will then begin.

<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> Yes, I’ve noticed such a peculiarity based on
    my initial experience of mastering spiritual practices: when you listen for the first time how to do a new
    meditation, “a thousand questions” from the mind arise about how exactly to do it. Now I understand why you
    always give such diverse associative comparisons and clarifications while explaining a new meditation. These are
    clarifications for the mind so that the material brain could at least understand something at first and simply
    grasp a general scheme of meditation. In other words, this is an attempt to explain to a person (whose
    consciousness is currently operating in the mode of perception of three-dimensional space) those phenomena which
    will take place during the meditation when his consciousness switches to the mode of perceiving other
    dimensions, or rather, the parts of his structure which are located in other dimensions. After all, when you do
    the meditation itself, everything turns out to be very simple and clear, because you do it with your deepest
    feelings. Moreover, in an altered state of consciousness when you have an extended perception of the world and
    typical self-analysis of a resident of the three-dimensional space is switched off.

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> Undoubtedly, all the dimensions are
    interconnected and influence one another. This is also true for the six dimensions in which the “multilayer”
    human energy structure is located. In order to understand the phenomena that take place in dimensions higher
    than the third, a person needs meditative experience and real changes – shall we say, at least in his basic
    worldview and daily work on himself. Only then will he be able to understand what the world really is and what
    secrets it hides in itself. When man gets his own experience, he will no longer need “thousands of words” or
    different explanations from the mind; hinting at a manifestation of this or that phenomenon will be enough for
    him to identify it and understand what happens and how.
<br>    By the way, I shall note another piece of information as food for thought
    regarding the structures of the brain that are involved in this meditation. The betweenbrain is a kind of
    collector of all types of sensitivities. It participates directly in the processes of regulating memory, sleep,
    instinctive behaviour, psychical reactions, correction of different kinds of sensitivity, and so on. For
    instance, what does the hypothalamus represent, which is a part of the betweenbrain, weighing only about 5
    grams? The hypothalamus contains the most important centres of the vegetative nervous system. In general, it is
    there that the coordination of functions of the sympathetic and the parasympathetic centres of the vegetative
    nervous system takes place, on which, one can say, the whole body is based. The hypothalamus controls main
    processes of homeostasis; that is, it supports the dynamic equilibrium of the internal environment during
    changes of external conditions by means of coordinated reactions. Moreover, medulla oblongata, among other
    things, also contains the centre of the main nerve of the parasympathetic nervous system, the longest of all the
    cranial nerves – the vagus nerve (nervus vagus), the branches of which participate in the formation of the solar
    plexus as well.
<br>    But let us get back to the meditation… <i>It is from the centre of the
    brain (the conditional, median centre), from the above-mentioned hypothalamic area of the betweenbrain, and
    further through certain points of his head, that the meditator carries the energy (which he had accumulated in
    “Hara” and moved along the spine to the brain) to the centre of each Essence. </i> So, a person
    artificially activates his Essences, thus generating in himself different initial emotional surges, and studies
    them at the same time.
<br>     <b>The task of the meditator</b> is to learn to recognise the
    work of each of his Essences, the result of which is manifested in daily life as certain emotional surges and
    thoughts. Let us take a closer look at the process of a person’s interaction with each of his main Essences
    during the meditation.
<br>     <b>At first, the meditator works with the Right Essence. </b>
<i>In the process of the meditation, the Qi energy goes from the hypothalamic area of the betweenbrain
    through the right amygdaloid nucleus located deep inside the temporal lobe of the brain. Next, through the point
    located above the right ear, the energy goes directly to the sphere centre of the Right Essence. </i>
<br>    For those who do not know the structure of their brain, I shall note that the
    human brain contains two amygdaloid nuclei located on the right and on the left sides. This is a very
    interesting subcortical brain structure, which is related to the formation of various kinds of emotions.

<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> Yes, as of today, science is already aware of
    the fact that amygdaloid nuclei are responsible for the human ability to read information from faces of
    surrounding people. Thus, a person subconsciously understands how these people feel at that moment. But the
    information reading mechanism itself is still not entirely clear to scientists.

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> Understandably, since this reading, like many
    other functions of the amygdaloid nuclei, is connected to the work of the lateral Essences of human in his
    energy structure. In the physical body, the functions of amygdaloid nuclei are related to vegetative emotional
    reactions, provision of defensive behaviour, and motivation of conditional reflex behaviour. Moreover, as of
    today, it has been established scientifically that damaging the amygdaloid nucleus can cause partial
    disappearance of the structures responsible for rage and aggression, as well as for the memory of danger. In
    other words, this may lead to a partial disappearance of fear in a person which will expose him to constant
    danger, of which he will be unaware. Medicine has even known attempts of treating fears and uncontrolled surges
    of aggression by means of surgical destruction of the amygdaloid nucleus. I want to note that the end does not
    always justify the means of achieving it. Victory over oneself is much more important than any surgical
    intervention. Especially, since a person still won’t be able to get rid of all his fears and manifestations of
    the Animal nature. Actually, the human body has no “extra parts”, so one should not remove anything from it
    unless it is absolutely necessary.
<br>    And, a couple more words about the point above the ear. This area also has the
    structures (which are connected to the human structure at the level of energy) that take part in the process of
    perception by a person in an altered state of consciousness of spatial correlations… or, more precisely, of his
    orientation in the spaces of different dimensions. The four Essences are also involved in this process. Although
    a certain phenomenon is present here. For these Essences, space and time do not exist in the way in which they
    are perceived by the resident of three-dimensional space. Yet it is thanks to the work of the Essences that a
    person conceives an intuitively accurate sense of orientation in time and space.
<br>    Of course, earlier people did not know such details about the connection
    between the human energy structure and physical structures of the brain. Nevertheless, those who practiced this
    meditation in ancient times did it just as successfully. Ancient people simply imagined “a breath of wind” at
    this stage of meditation pass first through the centre of the head, then through its external points to specific
    places in space, thanks to which certain actions took place there. For instance, in the ancient Russian
    spiritual practices, this process was presented as spinning of a vortex, as a contact with the masters of the
    four winds that <i>were endowed with properties of the four seasons: winter, summer, autumn, and spring
    (the last one, endowed with characteristics of the Front Essence, was revered the most by the ancient Slavs).</i>

<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> Are you saying this means that a person doesn’t have to know the structure of the brain thoroughly in order to do this meditation well?

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> Yes, but for overall intellectual development,
    this knowledge is useful… Afterwards, the practical experience of doing this meditation can simply be used in
    everyday life to observe in yourself the initial processes of origin of negative thoughts and emotions and,
    consequently, to prevent their undesirable development in time. Eventually, this process of work on yourself
    becomes like a habit, for instance, like walking. After all, at first person learns to keep his balance, then to
    move legs, and then this process becomes a part of a daily habit. As a result, he no longer pays attention to
    how he moves in space. He simply uses the result of his earlier work to do certain everyday tasks. The same
    applies to the experience of practicing this meditation. By controlling the emergence or surge of his emotional
    states in each day, a person preserves his attention and life energy unspent for more significant spiritual
    tasks. And without such control, he usually unconsciously wastes this energy on programmes and the will of the
    Animal mind, allowing negative thoughts and emotions to dominate in his consciousness.
<br>     <b>So, here is how the inner work with the centre of the Right Essence
    happens. </b> Usually in his everyday life, a person does not notice any of his Essences activate, though
    he certainly feels the result of such activation. When the lateral Essences start working, the person’s mood can
    suddenly change, moreover, for no apparent reason. Person becomes depressed, or the feeling of fear,
    disappointment, grief, and apathy washes over him, or, on the contrary, aggression and long standing grudges
    begin to emerge, and so on. Why does this happen? Because the lateral Essences activate; in this case, it is the
    Right Essence. Then, the Essence triggers formation of thoughts that correspond to this emotional surge and
    captures person’s attention with them. Like a skilful manipulator, it catches him at the point of
    hypersensitivity, so to speak, “offering” him a choice of different versions of thoughts, though in one and the
    same emotional tone.
<br>    In other words, when Animal nature dominates in a person, the lateral Essences
    in their usual mode of operation provoke such emotional surges in the Personality. And what do such surges mean
    for the human brain? They are basically a sort of a code which activates certain blocks of memory which store
    the once gained experience of such mental worries, emotions, and states. Having opened the memory “storerooms”
    and captured the person’s attention with their contents, the lateral Essences thus pull the person into a
    negative state. Then the process of strengthening the mood in this direction ensues, a kind of a looping on one
    and the same thoughts.
<br>    As a result, the person himself, by his choice of applying the power of
    attention, wastes the life energy on thoughts of the Animal nature, thus nourishing one or the other of his
    Essences which had triggered these emotional surges. And the Essence, for its part, strengthens its influence on
    the person through his own resource of attention. So, even though the person seems to want to escape such, for
    example, depressive or aggressive state; however, in reality he is just not able to get rid of it. Why? Because
    he has already allowed this state inside himself with his own choice – by mulling over these thoughts which kept
    him looped in this state. And he cannot abandon it because he does not actually want to give up these negative
    thoughts, ignore them in his consciousness, and avoid them in the future. For they deeply affect his pride,
    megalomania, the feeling of his own significance, or other “soup kit” from the standard repertoire of the Animal
    nature.
<br>    When the Animal nature dominates in human consciousness, the lateral Essences
    constantly try to distract the Personality’s attention from the main thing –focusing on spiritual liberation.
    And if we take this frequently recurring process on the scale of the entire life, then it turns out that such
    “trifles” of psychological excessive self-blame constantly draw man’s attention away from attaining the main
    goal of his life. Moreover, they contribute to the fact that a person falls into an illusion of existence and
    does not understand the real reason of why he is actually living here and now, in these conditions, why he is
    “imprisoned” in this temporary, mortal body. Unfortunately, it often happens that life flies by very quickly,
    and a person does not even have time to understand why he was actually born, what the power of his attention has
    been spent on, and on what trifles and trinkets (empty desires, arguments, struggle for leadership, and so on)
    he has wasted his precious reserve of life energy.

<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> Yes, previously I would also often experience
    such a looping of thoughts and worries in this regard, such an unnoticeable, or rather, usual for me, focus of
    attention on some empty little things of life, resentments, disappointments, aggression, or satisfaction of
    feeling of self-significance, which at that point of time seemed very important to me. But later I realised that
    the main thing for me was to know myself and my nature in order to understand at the right time what exactly is
    happening to me and how to prevent or adjust this process. As you once advised, in practice what helps to
    abandon this “pettiness of existence” is a global view from the perspective of your Observer from the Spiritual
    nature, a real understanding of the transience of life and of the priority of certain questions for your true
    self, that is, for your Spiritual nature.

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> To put it simply, an expanded state of
    consciousness… That is right. And a narrowed state of consciousness is exactly typical for the work of the
    Animal nature, so to speak, of “materialisation” of one’s consciousness. For example, why does depression arise?
    Because of active work of the Right Essence. In such cases, a person tries to seclude himself, to run away from
    society; as they say, he whimpers alone. And if such stereotypical influence continues long enough, it can even
    drive a person to suicide which, by the way, is what the Kandouks make use of. And no antidepressants will help
    here! How can the situation be helped by chemical substances which influence only the processes of the coarse
    matter of three-dimensional world if the whole point is about a similar influence taking place at the level of
    subtle energies? On the other hand, it is quite within the power of each person to stop these phenomena in
    himself. And it is not that difficult to do if, of course, one knows how.
<br>    But let us get back to the meditation technique itself… <i>So, the
    meditator takes a breath and upon exhalation, the energy goes from the centre of the head (“the ancient
    structures” of the brain) through the point located above the right ear to the spherical centre of his Right
    Essence. The spherical centre of</i> <b>the Right Essence starts rotating counter-clockwise. </b>
    Let me emphasise that the movement of the centres of the Right and the Left Essences happens namely
    counter-clockwise. This is simply physics. Person’s notion that they rotate clockwise is already a game of his
    imagination. At first, spinning the sphere counter-clockwise occurs at the level of imagination. But
    subsequently, the meditator begins to feel both the rotation of this centre and a clear sense of the “sphere” of
    the Right Essence as dense and hot.
<br>    Thus, a person artificially activates the centre of the Right Essence. The
    latter starts its usual work, the one that takes place when the Animal nature dominates in an individual’s
    consciousness. Each person has had moments in life when, while experiencing fear or great concern, he felt
    feverish or, the opposite, he felt too cold. Physiologists attribute this to a reaction of the vegetative
    system. But the nature of this phenomenon lies much deeper – at the level of the physics of the invisible world.
<br>    So, the objective of the meditator is to feel various emotional surges, which
    are typical for the work of this Essence, in order to recognise them later on in everyday sensations and to stop
    them at the very beginning of their emergence. During this meditation, a person, on the one hand, kind of
    relives this full range of sensations anew and, on the other hand, he observes the situation in its initial
    stages as an Observer from the Spiritual nature. That is, he sees the Animal nature’s activation which is hidden
    from him in the usual daily routine; so to speak, he sees preparation for an offensive, for an attack. In other
    words, the meditator keeps track of the situation: what particular emotional surges trigger the emergence of an
    oppressive state of consciousness, what feelings arise then, what thoughts awaken anger and aggression, what
    life episodes and associations come up in this connection, and so on. All this takes place through re-living
    this negative state. Of course, sensations will hardly be pleasant. At first, a sense of mild anxiety will
    appear; then anger, aggression, or fear may arise, or a state of oppression, or a sense of past resentment. The
    more energy (the “Qi” during breathing) the person will put into the centre of the Right Essence, the more heat
    he will sense from this sphere, and the stronger the negative feelings will become.

<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> It should be mentioned that the people who do
    this meditation for the first time often make the following mistakes. Knowing what kind of unpleasant emotions
    are expected to manifest (and everyone is usually aware of their “skeletons in the closet”), at the first stages
    of learning this meditation, they can block themselves from such emotions consciously or subconsciously. As a
    result, at their first attempts, people practically do not sense anything, or at best they sense warmth or cold
    from the sphere centres themselves during their rotation.

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> That is correct. It is just that when a person
    understands that he is about to experience an unpleasant state, the person may subconsciously block himself from
    manifestation of these sensations. The Animal nature does not like to give up its key positions. The meditator
    should be aware of this and try to do the meditation as diligently as possible, and not engage in passing the
    time by lulling himself into a false sense of security with the thoughts that probably “I’m such a good, highly
    spiritual individual, and nothing negative happens with me.”
<br>    This meditation is performed in order for a person to actually feel those
    states at the physical and psychological levels, feel those emotional surges that each of his Essences
    generates. Thus, he will learn to recognise the very moment of the beginning of an attack of his Animal nature,
    the emergence of these emotional surges, their influence and manifestation in everyday life. He will begin to
    understand “where the root of all evil” and the negative state, which has suddenly washed over him, come from.
    He will learn to detect and identify this state in himself and, most importantly, to control and prevent such
    attacks as well as the situation going from bad to worse. And if while learning this meditation in practice,
    instead of really working on himself, a person is going to be lazy or will simply find comfort in the illusion
    of his megalomania, then it will be very difficult for him in his daily life. Because the Animal nature will be
    fully prepared to use its entire secret arsenal while the person will not know how to resist it.
<br>    Many people, in such cases, attribute all these attacks to their external
    circumstances or to other people, thus only intensifying the uncontrolled activity of their Animal nature. But
    time passes, people and circumstances change in their lives, while attacks remain the same. Why? Because all the
    problems are inside the person. As man gets to know himself, he gets rid of his mental problems. The cause is
    not in the outer but in the inner. While studying yourself, you need to learn to understand also the people
    around you which means to learn to be kind.
<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> It is an irrefutable fact: when you yourself
    change, your attitude towards the world around you changes, too… Yes, there is a big difference between what a
    person expects in his ideas from the mind at the beginning of practicing meditation techniques and what happens
    in reality. This is like in the example with a lemon. If a person imagines a lemon, this can at best cause
    increased salivation in him. But if he tastes it, he will have a whole range of sensations.

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> That is right, it is the same thing here: one
    should not just imagine a hypothetical presence of these emotions but really feel them. But let us go back to
    the meditation itself. <i>After the meditator has felt the influence of his Right Essence, he calms his
    thoughts and feelings once again. There is a very important point that needs to be learnt: the person mentally
    stops the movement of this rotating spherical centre of the Right Essence. </i> At the first stages of
    learning, he can imagine this process as he likes; for instance, that he mentally stops the spinning of this
    sphere “with a hand” or by a thought command. <i>Then the meditator, as the Observer, returns to the
    conditional median centre in his head. There, he once again feels the state of peace and quiet, the neutral
    position of all four Essences simultaneously. </i> At this time, residual phenomena may still be felt,
    which will manifest themselves both at the physical level as unpleasant heat from the right sphere (as if from
    fire) and at the level of sensory-emotional surges, such as, for instance, anger and irritation. This
    background, after some time, quickly fades away as soon as the person purposefully switches attention to the
    subsequent processes of the meditation.


<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> Yes, it is one thing to conscientiously spin
    this sphere, but it’s more important to learn to stop it. I know from practical experience that in everyday
    life, until a person masters and starts noticing the beginning of the Animal nature’s attack, it is important
    for him to at least learn to prevent its further development. That is, once you notice already an obvious
    manifestation of the Animal nature, then at least you shouldn’t focus your attention on strengthening obsessive
    emotions, feelings and thoughts. In other words, one must not get involved in this process, stimulated by the
    Animal nature, or participate in this battle against yourself at the expense of your own power and resources.

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> That is true. <b>Any battle begins on the
    battlefield of the human mind. One who can tame his anger is like a sage who has won his battle before it even
    began… </b> So, the next stage of the meditation. <i>After the meditator has restored the state of
    inner calm, he once again switches his attention to breathing and repeats the scheme of the beginning of the
    meditation; that is, he fills “Hara” (lower abdomen) with Qi energy through the chakrans of his hands. Then he
    once again moves this energy along the spine to the ancient centre of the brain (the conditional median centre).
    But now he directs the energy from this centre to the left amygdaloid nucleus through the point located above
    the left ear to the spherical centre of the Left Essence. And then</i> <b>he begins to work with his
    Left Essence</b>, <i>artificially rotating the centre of the Left Essence</i> <b>counter-clockwise</b>
<i>by means of focusing his attention and thought. </i> The task is to feel the beginning of activation of this Essence, what emotional surges it generates, which create the corresponding mood.
<br>    As a rule, the person gets the following range of surges: <b>a sense of
    false pride</b>, self-love, temptation, increased libido, a desire to have secret power over others, and
    so on. There may appear corresponding images related to these feelings, to megalomania, lack of restraint,
    sexual desires from the perspective of domination of the “alpha male” (or the “alpha female”) of the so-called
    lust based on egocentrism, greed, the desire to possess someone or something. While during the rotation of the
    centre of the Right Essence, sensation of heat may be felt, then during the rotation of the spherical centre of
    the Left Essence, one will be able to feel an increasing sense of cold coming from it.
<br>     <i>After experiencing all the emotional surges of his Left Essence, the
    meditator calms his emotions once again, he mentally stops the rotation of the spherical centre of this Essence.
    Then he returns as an Observer to the conditional median centre of his consciousness (to the neutral position).
    He focuses on the state of calm and silence and feels the neutral position of all four Essences simultaneously.
</i> The physiological sensation of cold, the residual unpleasant emotions, and the feelings generated by
    the activity of the Left Essence may still “issue background activity” for some time.
<br>    After this, the meditator proceeds to studying the emotional surges generated by <b>the Back Essence</b>. To do this, he first <i>switches his attention to breathing and
    focuses on the process of filling “Hara”; then he turns his attention to the movement of Qi energy from “Hara”
    along the spine into the ancient centre of the brain (the conditional median centre). However, now he directs Qi
    energy already through the occipital area to the spherical centre of the Back Essence, activating this centre.
</i> I draw your attention to the fact that the spherical centre of the Back Essence can rotate in
    different directions: both to the right (clockwise) and to the left (counter-clockwise). This depends on the
    feelings that appear (which arise in one’s memory or which dominate at that moment). They are usually connected
    with some past experience, a significant emotional surge during the domination of this or that Essence. And this
    experience directly links to the activation of a certain Essence at that moment, most often the Left or the
    Right (in which case the rotation of the spherical centre of the Back Essence will be counter-clockwise) or the
    Front Essence (in this case, the spherical centre of the Back Essence will rotate clockwise). These can be
    feelings from the person’s past or present, or various visions, depending on the power of emotional surges of
    the past. Sensations coming from the centre of the Back Essence may also be different, from deadly cold to a
    range of warm, pleasant sensations.
<br>    By the way, upon intensive spinning of the spherical centre of the Back
    Essence in counter-clockwise direction, what is created is… let us put it this way, favourable conditions for
    domination of the material thinking. This is merely physics of the multi-dimensional human structure. The
    counter- clockwise rotation of the spherical centre of the Back Essence almost always produces a feeling of
    longing, hopelessness, worthlessness, and scepticism; generates thoughts along the line of “you’re nobody, and
    you’ll remain such until your death”, of transience of time and doom. However, if the spherical centre of the
    Back Essence started spinning clockwise, this, as a rule, activates the experience of emotional surges generated
    by the Front Essence. The latter, in turn, is connected to the Soul and the spiritual development of man. In
    this case, entirely different sensations arise from the Back Essence. Quite often, when the meditator practices
    this meditation, while in such an “elevated state”, he is, as if “ejected” from the Back Essence to the Front
    Essence, and the meditation continues with a totally different quality. But for now we are talking about the
    standard scheme, according to which, <i>after working with the Back Essence, person stops the spinning of
    this spherical centre also and returns with his consciousness to his conditional median centre of the head.
    Again, he calms his thoughts and emotions, restores the state of peace, quiet, and the neutral sensation of all
    four Essences simultaneously. </i>
<br>     <b>Then the meditator proceeds to working with the Front Essence. </b>
    This is the most pleasant part of the meditation. <i>At first, as usual, we switch our attention to
    breathing, repeating the scheme of filling “Hara” with Qi energy through hand chakrans and the subsequent
    movement of this energy along the spine into the ancient centre of the brain (the conditional median centre).
    Only now Qi energy goes from the centre of the ancient brain through the point located in the centre between the
    eyebrows into the spherical centre of the Front Essence. </i>
<br>     <i>We concentrate on the spherical centre of the Front Essence,
    rotating it</i> <b>clockwise</b>. <i>At this time, one will sense a clear
    interconnection with the solar plexus area, or rather, with the centre of the human energy structure – the Soul.
</i> As for feelings, there will be a surge of energy, a sensation of comfort, pleasant warmth, joy,
    detachment from the material world, and contact with the spiritual world. The more the centre of the Front
    Essence spins, the more one will be filled with these feelings. It is like a kind of an emotional outlet for a
    person. In this meditation, it is important to work with the Front Essence after all the others in order to
    acquire the state of stability, balancing of mood, and generation of a spiritual surge. It is with this
    comprehensive, blissful state of expanded perception that the meditator not only leaves this meditation, but
    also preserves it in his usual state of consciousness. In this meditation, just like in life, it is important
    not only to stop the negative activation of the back and lateral Essences but also to learn to activate your
    Front Essence and to switch to the positive state of consciousness and thinking in a timely manner.
<br>    The meditator ends this meditation as usual with a command to himself:
    “Inhale-exhale, clench-unclench fists with force.” This meditation takes 20-30 minutes. At the first stages, it
    may take a little longer for some people. It can be done in the morning and in the evening, or during the day
    –whichever is convenient. It helps to control the flow of thoughts and feelings and understand yourself and your
    emotional states. It is important not only to learn the technique itself but also to recognise your
    spontaneously arising emotional surges throughout a regular day. While practicing this meditation, one will be
    able to see its effectiveness in everyday life after one learns to understand which of his Essences triggers one
    or another emotional and sensory surge. After all, he will then be able to timely disrupt a negative flow by
    stopping the activation of the centres of the back and the lateral Essences and switch to the Front Essence, to
    a positive emotional surge and the corresponding mood and thinking.
<br>    This meditation is like a step to subsequent development and attainment of
    more significant spiritual goals. It is only a tool in order for a person to learn to control himself instead of
    being controlled by the Animal nature. Thanks to this meditation, man learns to easily orientate himself in his
    sensations and emotional surges, just like a good musician, for whom it is enough to only see sheet music in
    order to understand what the melody is and how it will sound. In daily life, such control helps one to maintain
    the dominance of the Spiritual nature and the habit of living like a human being, according to one’s Conscience.
    Generally speaking, as they say, to always be in good shape.

<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b>…Even regarding this meditation, when a person
    is focused on serious daily work on himself, on his own spiritual development, in general, if he learns to be on
    a qualitatively different wave of perception, then his Essences will begin to work differently. They will simply
    be switching more often to a new mode of operation of this dominant perception, manifesting, in fact, their
    other qualities and abilities, including the so-called phenomenal abilities of man. As they wrote in ancient
    Indian treatises: “Act, but renounce the fruits of your labour!” That is, act unselfishly and not out of
    self-love.
<br>    This meditation, in my view, contains a very important aspect of understanding
    the nature of man and his complex structure. The meditation makes it possible to understand from personal
    experience the mysterious process of emergence of emotional surges and human thoughts. After all, chemical and
    physical process in the brain are already a consequence of the “primary ezoosmos”, that is, of the initial
    impetus of energy. I remember you making an excellent associative comparison of function of the betweenbrain
    with a kind of a receiver which converts energy fluctuations (signals coming from the Essences) into the subtle
    matter of feelings and emotions.

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> If the associations related to technology are
    more appropriate for comprehending this process, then I can surely give such examples as well. For ease of
    understanding, the function of the ancient structures of the brain may be figuratively compared to a television
    set (by the way, the word television is derived from the Greek word “tele” meaning “far” and the Latin word
    “visor”, which stands for “observer”, and “viso” meaning “I look”, “vision”). Or rather, to a cathode-ray tube
    (kinescope) in the TV set which converts the electric and light signals that are invisible to the human eye into
    visible images in the frequency range perceived by us.
<br>    In the betweenbrain, just like in the main blocks of the analogue kinescope TV
    set, there is, figuratively speaking, its own signal receiver. By its functions, it is conditionally similar to
    another device in the TV set – the channel selector which not only amplifies but also singles out the signal of
    the corresponding necessary “channel” and then converts it to a standard intermediate frequency. Besides, there
    are, associatively speaking, a certain “signal decoding unit”, a “sound and video signal detector”, an
    “intermediate frequency amplifier”, an “audio power amplifier”, and a “cathode ray tube”. That is, the same
    physics, but at the level of subtle energy processes which take place in the human microcosm and its complex
    structure.
<br>    The betweenbrain is one of converters of energies into coarse matter. And the
    Essences may be compared to television towers that broadcast their programmes on various channels with the help
    of their transmission antennas. Let us take, for instance, the Left, the Right, and the Back Essences. For them,
    a person’s attention to their programmes is, speaking in technical language, a “power supply unit”, “voltage
    amplifier of vertical and horizontal deflection”, an amplifier of image channels in the form of illusions
    imposed upon the person, and a remote control unit of managing the person and his mood. So either a thriller
    about his own pride appears in the person’s head, or a horror movie made of his own fears, or a melodrama titled
    “the wailing wall about the lost past.” That is, these Essences will very skilfully draw any plausible illusion,
    “make a mountain out of a molehill”, and force the person to deeply experience different negative emotions while
    using his own, so valuable for his spiritual development, attention.
<br>    However, if the person switches to perceiving the “television broadcasting” of
    his Front Essence, he will be able to see and feel an entirely different perception of the world, one that is
    useful for his spiritual growth. For example, a “documentary” about real life and about the inner spiritual
    world which is reflected in the outer. Thanks to such a contact and empathy, the Personality receives a powerful
    positive charge which allows it to concentrate all its attention in the spiritual direction. The truth is that
    after such a “film”, the regular human life will seem sheer acting. So, it only depends on the person, what he
    will give attention to in his head and which signals he will receive and amplify. Figuratively speaking, the
    person holds in his own hands not only the remote control of his “TV set” but also the opportunity to control
    all the “television towers” along with their TV and radio companies.
<br>    Moreover, thanks to this meditation technique, a person will be able to
    understand both himself and other people. When you are able to clearly identify in yourself the moments
    connected with activation of one or another Essence, it will be easy for you to also feel a hidden influence
    upon you by other people. How? For example, you are talking to a person or listening to certain information on
    television or radio. At the moment of the conversation or receiving information from an external source, you
    simply focus on your neutral median position as an Observer surrounded by your four Essences. Or rather, you
    enter into the state of the Observer that is detached from circumstances and trace in yourself which of your
    Essences is activated by this information. After all, besides verbal exchange of information between people,
    there is also an interaction of their Essences. Thanks to such tracking of influence of this information on you,
    you will understand what has been the original emotional foundation of it and for what actual hidden purpose it
    is being communicated to you. For example, if your interlocutor is telling lies or practices deceit, your Left
    Essence will definitely be activated. If he provokes aggression in you, the centre of your Right Essence will
    start spinning. And if he awakens in you a surge of positive emotions, Love, and Good, then your Front Essence
    activates. Thus, you can follow the real situation and not that illusion which is being constantly imposed upon
    you from the visible and the invisible worlds for the purpose of controlling your consciousness.

<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> Yes, if many people master this meditation
    technique, the need to lie and control each other will disappear in society. There will be no point in it, for
    everyone will know the Truth about each other.

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> That is so. But this will happen only if majority
    of people in society want to change for the better. Then, humanity will have a chance to follow an entirely
    different, a qualitatively new way of civilized spiritual development. But what will modern mankind choose –
    that is the question. After all, this meditation technique had been given to people previously. Moreover, it was
    brought into the life of society at different times. I would not say it was given in such detail, but it was
    quite understandable for people’s way of thinking in those days. But people are people, and many of them,
    unfortunately, enjoy modernising and complicating the pure knowledge and the simple Truth. Nevertheless, echoes
    of this practice can still be found in the secret knowledge of different nations of the world. Only today, it
    has been camouflaged to the point of absurdity into the rituals that are accompanied by singing, dancing, and
    fancy shows with tambourines and drums. And all this is done for the purpose of “switching” into an altered
    state of consciousness for a “disciple” or a “high priest” and listen to “a talking spirit” from the right or
    the left side and so on. Although while doing this practice in its pure form, such complexities are not needed –
    this is all human, superficial. Here, at first stages you simply learn to reconfigure the perception of
    consciousness, and track and control your states. And later there are simply working moments… Generally
    speaking, I should note that since ancient times such basic spiritual practices related to the fundamental
    knowledge and human spiritual growth have, as a rule, been recorded <i>in certain signs and symbols… </i>