<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> So it happens in life. In
    practice, I have already more than once come across cases when the person tries to do a whole range of different
    meditations but doesn’t want to change himself, remaining egocentric in nature and wishing to satisfy his own
    significance in everything and to gain personal power over everything. Such people are often visited by doubts,
    pride, and incomprehension of simple truths. But I’ve also seen other people who try to work on themselves each
    day, and they get an entirely different result from the same meditations. While aspiring to be Human in each
    day, developing themselves, and doing spiritual practices, they begin to understand the silent Knowledge,
    gaining true faith. For such people who have spiritual diligence, I would appreciate it if you could tell us
    about one of the fundamental meditations – the “Pyramid.”

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> In this respect, there is an ancient Eastern
    wisdom: if one man during his life has defeated many people many times in battles, and another man has conquered
    only himself, the latter has won a greater victory than the former. It is much more important for a person to
    conquer himself rather than all the other people.
<br>    I hope that in view of the already available knowledge, people will better
    understand the meditation “Pyramid.” So, as I have mentioned before, from the perspective of the Observer of a
    higher dimension, the human structure does not look the same as it looks in the three-dimensional world (with
    arms, legs, a head, and a torso). It looks as a complex shape which more than anything resembles a four-sided
    truncated pyramid with its top detached. This is, of course, if we pick the closest association understandable
    for the thinking of a resident of a three- dimensional world. Thanks to the “Pyramid” meditation, a person can
    feel his energy structure, which is connected to the four Essences, expand his perception, and, most
    importantly, feel his Soul.
<br>    It is advisable to do the <b> “Pyramid” meditation</b> while
    sitting in the lotus position or simply in a cross-legged position “Indian style”, placing your hands on your
    knees, palms down. However, if for some reason, a person is unable to sit in such a position for a long time,
    this meditation can be done, for example, while sitting on a chair. The main thing is the inner, spiritual
    processes taking place in a person.
<br>     <i>So we close our eyes, tune in, calm down, relax the body, free our
    mind from thoughts, all our worries, and emotional surges. In general, we fully enter into an altered state of
    consciousness – a meditation. While in the state of meditation, we start examining our energy structure which is
    connected to the four Essences. That is to say, it is necessary from the perspective of the Observer located
    inside the truncated pyramid to feel the Right, Left, Back, and Front Essences as “live sides” of the truncated
    pyramid. </i> These sides are located approximately at an arm’s length from the physical body of the
    person.

<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> Figuratively speaking, in front of the
    meditating person at an arm’s length, there is a live energy field, conditionally in the form of the front wall
    of a truncated pyramid. It’s the same on both sides and in the back. These fields form a quadrangle base, in the
    middle of which there is a meditating person sitting in the lotus position.

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> Yes. These four Essences are like frontier guards
    of our energy field or, in other words, of our personal space. What is personal space? Between the physical body
    and the four Essences, there is space ranging from the critical 7 centimetres up to 1 metre. Personal space
    looks like an oval with a blurred outline (as it was called in the ancient times, “an egg” or “a fish bubble”),
    which in volume is larger than the human body. As a rule, in the secret writing of signs and symbols, it is
    conditionally designated with the symbol of an oval.
<br>    I will just say that the personal space of each individual is unstable; it
    constantly varies within certain limits of its volume. This depends on many factors, even on a change of an
    individual’s mood. But usually people do not notice this, they do not understand and, what is more, they do not
    see it with their physical sight, let alone control it and, consequently, control their states. But this is not
    our topic now. It is worth noting that the distribution of energies in the human pyramidal structure is slightly
    different from how a person would perceive it from the perspective of the Observer of the third or the fourth
    dimensions – through the energy meridians of the body, arms, and legs. Here, energies are distributed on the
    cross-sections of the pyramid according to the physics and the geometry of spaces of higher dimensions.
<br>    So, the conditional sides of the truncated pyramid are our four Essences. The
    Soul is confined in the middle of this structure in a kind of light cocoon. It is located approximately in the
    lower third part of the structure, and if one uses the physical body as a reference point, then it is at the
    level of the solar plexus and the upper part of the abdomen. By the way, in the East, since ancient times, <i>the
    Soul</i> in a cocoon has been symbolically depicted as <i>a pearl in a shell. </i> It was a
    symbol of human’s spiritual development, which is hidden from the eye, inside his structure. It was a miracle of
    Revival. Its nacreous whiteness symbolised spiritual purity, wisdom, perfection, and sacred knowledge. It should
    be noted that this associative comparison of the Soul with a pearl can be traced in all the religions of the
    world. For Hindus and Buddhists, the pearl is an image of spiritual enlightenment. Christians combine the
    “priceless pearl from the waters of baptism” with the concept of the Soul and the Mother of God and Her
    spiritual purity. Islam has a legend that the pearl is one of the names of God and that in the other world it is
    pearls that form spheres around holy souls. Such associations are partly related to spiritual vision because the
    meditating person during certain spiritual practices sometimes <i>sees processes taking place in the area
    where the Soul is located, which he associates with a shining, a play of bright light coming from the Soul,
    which looks like the glitter and sparkling of the pearl’s nacre in the sunlight. </i>

<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> Once you gave another good association when
    you were describing the shell of the Soul during reincarnation, that it looks like an iridescent film on a soap
    bubble. I wrote this knowledge down in the <u>book Ezoosmos</u>.

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> That is right… Now that we have outlined the
    human structure as a truncated pyramid, let us move on to its top which is detached from the base. It is in this
    place, in the pyramid’s conditional top which is located above human’s head, that his thoughts are born. That is
    approximately half a metre from the top of the head (the distance is approximate because it is individual). That
    is what the energy structure of an ordinary person looks like in the understanding of a citizen of the
    three-dimensional world. It looks like a four-sided truncated pyramid with a conditionally detached top.
<br>    But let us get back to the technique of this meditation… <i>So, it is
    necessary to feel all the four Essences. </i> This feeling is like you are surrounded by four absolutely
    different people standing close to you. If you close your eyes and relax, you can feel their presence as certain
    pressure on your personal space. <i>Once we have felt the four Essences, we move to the top of the
    pyramid. There, we observe the primary process of “formation” of our various thoughts (which later get
    transformed through the cacodemon and the agathodaemon centres which you mentioned in the book Birds and Stone;
    one might say, they acquire material characteristics), how these energies appear, and ways of their movement,
    interaction, and blocking. We differentiate their impact; simply put, we track all these processes and then we
    either calm them down or completely abstract our mind from them.
<br>    Then we leave the top of the pyramid, move up higher, and reach the level of
    the Observer that is detached from the material world. </i> In other words, we rise above thoughts, above
    matter, and we reach the state of detachment from the earthly, from what, in one way or another, binds us as a
    Personality to matter. Often in the early stages of mastering this meditation, it helps to imagine that the
    meditating person goes with his consciousness out of his pyramidal structure, hovering and observing it from the
    bird’s eye view. Using modern associations, consciousness is kind of located at this height, as if in vacuum, in
    zero gravity. This state of the Observer from the Spiritual nature helps to obtain complete inner stillness, an
    expanded state of consciousness, impartiality of the very process of observation of ongoing processes, helps to
    abstract the mind from the material body and thoughts, and explore one’s energy structure from the perspective
    of a new vision. <i>Then, we remain in such a state of consciousness and observe our pyramidal structure
    and the Soul enclosed in it from the outside. </i>
<br>    Next, the most important part of the meditation takes place. <i>We make
    the best possible direct approach of consciousness (the Personality) to the Soul, and we do it at a level of the
    deepest feelings. That is, we immerse ourselves (as an Observer) through the top of the pyramid, through the
    inner energy structure of the pyramid itself into its very centre – the Soul. </i> At this stage of
    meditation, the brain often gives an associative perception as if a person dives, just like when diving into the
    water but without the pressure that is typical for this physical process. During such an immersion, people who
    are inherently very sensitive to energy processes, especially those with a well-developed intuitive perception,
    notice even phases of a gradual switching of the operation mode of their consciousness to new levels of sensory
    perception, which have previously been unknown to them.
<br>    So it is necessary to come as close as possible to the glowing cocoon in the
    centre of the pyramid, where this particle from the spiritual world is located. And then to touch it at the
    level of the deepest feelings. Of course, it is impossible for the person to fully feel the Soul and comprehend
    its spiritual depth until he has spiritually matured and united with it. But even this contact of feelings
    begets the state which Buddhists, for example, call a touch of Nirvana, and other people describe as a state of
    goodness, divine bliss, achieving harmony, and so on.
<br>    Thanks to this meditation, it is possible to understand yourself and your
    complex multi-dimensional structure better and to become aware of the fact that many thoughts appear and
    disappear not of our own “will.” But we can observe and influence them, abstract our mind from them, and block
    them. The most important thing is that with this meditation, a person as a Personality will gain an experience
    of not only a sense of divine presence but also of a connection with his Soul, develop skills of a constant
    contact with it, and realise in practice that the Soul is the main and the most important part of the whole
    human structure. The Soul is you, but the real you. The rest of the energy structure in six dimensions is built
    around it. In this meditation, the person acquires experience of an entirely different perception of his reality
    and learns to perceive himself from the perspective of the Observer from the Spiritual nature.
<br>    The duration of this meditation is individual, just like with any other
    spiritual practice. To begin with, I recommend doing it for 20 minutes. It could be done once a day or several
    times a day, as you prefer. The main thing is to do it thoroughly. Later on, the time of the meditation can be
    increased, for example up to 30 minutes. But again, the most important part in this process is not the duration
    but precisely inner sensations and the development of a spiritual deep connection of feelings with the Soul.

<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> This meditation is truly unique. I can say
    from personal experience that there’s a significant difference in sensations when you are just starting to learn
    this spiritual practice and when you already have experience of doing it. At first, the technique itself seemed
    unusual to me because the understanding of how to do a spiritual practice, let’s say, in the “geometry of
    space”, was new to me. After all, it didn’t involve any work with chakrans or a sensation of energy movement
    along the energy meridians of the body and so on, to which at that moment I was already used. But that’s what
    makes it interesting.
<br>    At first, everything happened for me only at the level of imagination, but
    probably that was because at that time I couldn’t yet fully get into an altered state of consciousness. Later
    on, as I practiced this meditation at home every day, wonderful sensations appeared. For example, I started
    catching the moment of switching the state of consciousness, of a deep immersion, and unusual sensations of the
    Soul’s presence appeared, which are hard to describe with words. You are absolutely right, it is necessary to
    get personal experience of the meditation in order to understand the whole inexpressible range of sensations.
<br>    And I have several other observations about the sense of time during the
    process of meditation. Earlier, when we just started doing the first spiritual practices, it was quite
    challenging for me to sit in a meditation for 20-30 minutes. Now I understand that you pay attention to the body
    during the process only when you are in the mode of usual thinking, when, in fact, you are in the waking state.
    In this state, you feel your body and the surrounding environment well, and stray thoughts appear in your head
    from time to time, which distract you from the meditation. The meditation itself is carried out nominally as
    your imagination is at work for the most part. Now, many years later, when I do the “Pyramid” and really get
    into an altered state of consciousness, then time, space, and, generally speaking, all this crude reality of the
    three-dimensional world kind of cease to exist. You only start this process, go towards the Soul, and you are
    kind of picked up from the other, spiritual side, the Front Essence starts working actively…
<br>    What happens already at this stage of work in this meditation is, obviously,
    incomparable to the results of the very first attempts of its exploration. Besides, there’s no monotony in this
    spiritual work: every time this spiritual practice gives one a new awareness, a richer range of sensations, and
    a clear understanding of the processes and changes taking place at the invisible level. You already live by this
    state, and when you finish the meditation, it seems that you leave something near and dear and wait again for
    that moment when you can feel it once more. Because of this, you get an urge and an active wish to practice it
    more, since you want to stay there longer. For in this wonderful state, you begin feeling something very dear
    and intimate, an extraordinary comfort; you clearly become aware of the deepest processes which are impossible
    for the brain to understand in the usual state of consciousness. Importantly, when you leave this meditation,
    you feel a significant difference between that subtle world and the world of matter of three dimensions. You
    start feeling many processes in our reality as the work of rough material energies. Surprisingly, in the state
    of meditation, you gain a clear and precise meaning of your existence, and many things, which used to trouble
    you in worldly life, appear to be empty and ridiculous. There, you fully realise that the real life values are
    values for the Soul. This phenomenal experience in a way leaves a certain spiritual mark on your life in three
    dimensions. This, in its turn, allows you not to lose your spiritual and life’s reference points, encourages you
    to work on yourself harder, track your thoughts and states, and ward off provocations from the Animal nature.
    The spiritual experience helps to understand where the true happiness lies, which begets feelings of peace and
    comfort of the Soul, and why you shouldn’t chase after a ghostly illusion of this world. Most importantly, you
    gain an understanding of who you really are and what the meaning of your existence here, in this world, is.

<br>     <b>Rigden: </b> Space and time in this world have an intermittent
    (cascading) nature. Everything material is intermittent and uneven; everything is ezoosmos. This material world
    is unstable and temporal. The world of God, however, the spiritual world, is stable and eternal. After this
    meditation, it is really possible, even in the usual state of consciousness, thanks to the experience gained, to
    feel these deepest feelings coming from the Soul, this subtle connection with it, the feeling of boundless
    spiritual Love, the feeling of native home – Nirvana and Eternity.
<br>    A long time ago, this meditation was a commonly known technique of self-
    perfection in the human society, one of the basic techniques used to develop the deepest feelings and a sensual
    connection of the Personality with the Soul. However, gradually, as the process of materialisation of society’s
    consciousness developed, people started forgetting and losing this meditation technique, just like, by the way,
    many other grains of spiritual Knowledge. Sometimes, even mentions of it got deliberately destroyed. As long as
    true spiritual Knowledge was present in society, it was passed to next generations in the form of symbols as the
    most important and obvious thing in a person’s worldview. For example, the symbolic designation of the “Pyramid”
    meditation (the full version of the symbol) was a square with a diagonal cross and an empty circle in its
    centre.

<br>     <b>Anastasia: </b> You know, as you were explaining this
    meditation to us for the first time and saying that energies are distributed along the sections of the pyramid,
    out of curiosity, I later looked into geometry textbooks and read, now with great interest, that which had
    slipped my attention at school. For example, that the plane which intersects the pyramid and is parallel to its
    base, cuts off a similar pyramid. If one cuts a four-sided pyramid with several planes which are parallel to the
    base, and then projects these sections onto the same plane of the base, then as a result, we’ll get a series of
    squares inscribed in each other. And the square, as it is known, is a symbol of all that is material. Generally
    speaking, thanks to this additional information, I later started to understand more also about the processes
    taking place in the meditation. Still, it’s important for a person to have all-round basic knowledge